Updated OpenShift Service Mesh page. (#1050)
UKCloud/documentation: articles/openshift/oshift-ref-deploy-app-into-service-mesh.md

---
title: Deploying an application into OpenShift Service Mesh
description:
services: openshift
author: Andrew Garner
reviewer:
lastreviewed:

toc_rootlink: Reference
toc_sub1: v4
toc_sub2:
toc_sub3:
toc_sub4:
toc_title: Deploying an application into OpenShift Service Mesh
toc_fullpath: Reference/v4/oshift-ref-deploy-app-into-service-mesh.md
toc_mdlink: oshift-ref-deploy-app-into-service-mesh.md
---

# Deploying an application into OpenShift Service Mesh

## Overview

Red Hat OpenShift Service Mesh (OSM) provides an easy way to create a network of deployed services that provides discovery, load balancing, service-to-service authentication, failure recovery, metrics, and monitoring. OSM is based on the open source [Istio](https://istio.io/) project. This article explains how to deploy a cloud-native sample application into OSM and highlights some key differences with using OSM compared to Istio.

### Intended Audience

This article is intened for teams familiar with OpenShift, microservices and the service mesh concept who are preparing to deploy microservices into OpenShift Service Mesh.

### Prerequisites

* Familiarity with the concepts involved in a Service Mesh.

> * The OpenShift Service Mesh (OSM) Operator is installed into your OpenShift cluster. See the [OpenShift docs](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.4/service_mesh/service_mesh_install/preparing-ossm-installation.html) for an installation guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The OpenShift Service Mesh (OSM) Operator is installed into your OpenShift cluster. See the [OpenShift docs](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.5/service_mesh/service_mesh_install/preparing-ossm-installation.html) for an installation guide.
```

* The istio-system project exists and the target project for the sample application deployment has been added to the OSM `ServiceMeshMemberRole` configuration.

## Preparing services for deployment

### Sidecar injection

The OSM uses the same Envoy proxy sidecar container as Istio does to manage traffic within the service mesh. OSM requires Deployments to specify the annotation `sidecar.istio.io/inject: "true"` to opt-in to the sidecar injection.

### Traffic ingress

Incoming traffic must enter the Service Mesh via a Route which the Service Mesh has created. A Route will be automatically created for every instance of a Gateway. Replace any explicit Route creation with Gateways.

When using the istio-system as a multi-tenant control plane, each ingress needs a VirtualService instance which defines the traffic routing at the point of ingress. As a minimum the traffic must be routed to the correct VirtualService based on the traffic's incoming DNS name.

### Services

> Kiali can accessthe Service Mesh components configuration and will report on configuration errors. While not requred for functionality, all services should be labelled and ports should have a name and protocol defined in order to avoid Kiali reporting configuration errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kiali can access the Service Mesh components configuration and will report on configuration errors. While not requred for functionality, all services should be labelled and ports should have a name and protocol defined in order to avoid Kiali reporting configuration errors.
```
